# ADR 1: Initial Design Decisions

## Context

This document outlines the initial project design decisions. Many of the decisions can be traced back to the [Go Best Practices](https://peter.bourgon.org/go-best-practices-2016/) article by Peter Bourgon.

#### Repo Structure

We have two main options for structure:

* Put everything under the root, with maybe a `cmd` directory for the cli
* Have a `cmd` dir and a `pkg` dir for our actual library as laid out in [Go Best Practices - Repository Structure](https://peter.bourgon.org/go-best-practices-2016/#repository-structure) 

This is pretty subjective but I like the structure defined in the second option.

#### Testing library

We again have multiple options. We could use basic `go test`, the slightly more robust [testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify), or the more complex [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo). Each has their own advantages and disadvantages that can be found by reading their respective repos.

#### General Input and Output

In the original ruby implementation we have a lot fo leeway since it's dynamic and not statically typed. This resulted in a freeform hash input and output structure that honestly caused a lot of grief.

We could go freeform as well. It has certain advantages:

 - No need to limit ourselves
 - There are probably lots of edge cases in the original implementation that will be hard to fit into a strict structure

But there are so many disadvantages:

 - The freeform hashes in ruby are confusing and impossible to follow
 - Testing is so difficult
 - The edge cases just exist without any clarity. I would rather have pain from edge cases in a strict world

I honestly don't even want to explain other options. We need strictly typed input and output.

## Decision

#### Structure

We will follow option 2 above, which will have the following:

* The root dir will include any README, LICENSE, Makefile, and other top-level project files
* A `pkg` dir that will contain our library code
* A `cmd` dir that will contain our cli and any other executables we end up having
* A `doc` directory that contains most of our project doc
* A `definitions` git submodule that houses the [raw yaml files](https://github.com/holidays/definitions)

#### Testing

We will go with [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo). In my experience this has offered the best experience for writing both unit and integration tests, mainly because it feels very similar to `rspec`. This is subjective and we could decide to change in the future (or mix and match) without too many repercussions.

#### Input and Output types

We will use a `Holiday` type to represent a 'found' holiday and an 'Options' type that includes all available options that can be passed into the various functions. Regions can remain simple iso-3166 codes and can be passed in as an array of strings.

## Consequences

N/A

## Status

Accepted
